good morning everybody welcome to the
last day of reinvent I'm glad so many of
you made the maybe sometimes tough
decision to get out of bed and come here
this morning so thank you for coming
here today to talk about the relational
database service and take a deeper dive
under the covers of what RDS has to
offer my name is Scott Ward I'm a
solution architect at EWS I work on the
partner team based out of Seattle I'm
going to be joined here throughout the
day by Katie Singh who is also a
solution architect on the partner team
and based out of San Francisco quick
pull from the audience who here today is
running RTS using RDS okay who here
today is running a relational database
but on ec2 ok and then who's looking to
migrate to RTS whether you're on ec2 or
not on ec2 in like the next 12 months ok
cool I think we've got some content in
this presentation that's going to apply
to all three of those scenarios to kind
of help you better understand what RDS
kit can do it and some of the ways you
can leverage it and use RDS as a service
we will leave some time for Q&A here
today and if we if we burn through that
time we'll happily stand down here and
continue to answer further questions at
the end of the session cool so this is a
deep dive so we don't need to spend a
lot of time on the value prop of RDS but
just very quickly that there's no
infrastructure management with RDS we
take care of ordering and managing the
infrastructure for that RDS is very cost
effective because it runs with a for the
database instance with a pay-as-you-go
model and you only pay for the amount of
storage that you actually provision if
you're using third-party applications or
if you built your own custom
applications that are using a relational
database there's a very good chance that
they will continue to work against a
database running on RDS you get instant
provisioning with RDS so when you want a
new database with a few clicks of a
button or a command-line call you have a
database up and running and ready for
you to log into in just a few minutes
and you can scale up and scale down with
RDS you can resize your database
instance to get
a appropriate configuration of CPU and
memory and you don't have to worry about
going and finding more infrastructure to
support those scaling efforts now RDS is
a managed service so there are some
trade-offs that go with that managed
service it's got a fully managed host an
operating system so the good thing is
you don't have to burn operational
effort to actually manage those
components but what it means is there
that you know you don't get access to
that host operating system we control
that access so you're going to have some
limited ability to maybe modify
configuration settings that you would
normally go to the operating system and
modify yourself and that may mean that
there's some some functions or key
functionality in the database that maybe
isn't available to you we're working to
bridge those gaps still as a service but
but pay attention to those and make sure
you look at those if you're just moving
to RDS and then the storage is also
fully managed with RDS once again you
don't have the operational burden of
having to deal with monitoring and
managing the storage but because it's
fully managed there's some limits if
you're using Aurora you get 64 terabytes
of storage pretty good it could amount
with Microsoft sequel server you can
have up to four terabytes of storage and
with the remaining engines you can have
up to six terabytes of storage so what
that means is that growing your
databases of process you have to make
some decisions about how much storage
you're going to provision and then you
have to make some decisions about when
you're going to provision more storage
and if you get to the end and you've
used up all the storage available you
have to make some more decisions about
am I going to delete data am I going to
archive data do i need to come up with a
charting strategy in order to create
another database and continue to have
enough storage available to support my
application this is a view of all the
RDS engines that are out there today so
on the commercial side we have oracle
and microsoft sequel server open source
my sequel postgres and Mariah DB and in
the cloud native category we have Amazon
Aurora which is supporting my sequel and
now as of Wednesday the postgres version
of Aurora as well who here is like
really excited to get their hands on the
postgres side yeah
having done this talk several times
throughout the year like that is a very
common question we got from customers
and it backs up a lot of what Andy said
so very excited to see what people can
do with that when they get their hands
on it so security is a top priority at
AWS and we take a lot of pride and we
put make it really job zero to ensure
that our customers are operating in his
safe and secure and environment as
possible and so with that in mind
there's a lot of different things you
can do security wise when it comes to
RDS to make sure that you're operating
with the right security profile for you
it starts out with a neck working that's
tied to your database so as many of you
know we have a virtual private cloud and
when you launch an RDS instance that
instance launches inside a virtual
private cloud and with the virtual
private cloud you can define your own
private network address space with
inside the AWS cloud you can also carve
that up even further into different
subnets across different availability
zones so when you've got your database
up and running and it's running inside
your virtual private cloud there's lots
of different ways that you can manage
connectivity and control access into
your database you have a double us
Direct Connect which will let you to
allow you to connect your on-premise
data center with an AWS region for a
high-speed throughput you can create a
VPN connection to have a secure tunnel
between your virtual private cloud and
your data center or your corporate
offices you could peer multiple V pcs
together either within an AWS account or
across different accounts so if you've
got different databases or different
applications in other V pcs you can peer
them with a VPC that's maybe hosting an
RDS instance and still be able to access
them you have routing rules where you
can define and decide how traffic is
routed in your v pc and you can attach
an internet gateway to it to actually
allow your database to have to be able
to reach the public internet if it needs
to building on that and going a step
lower we have security groups around
your databases so this is a virtual
firewall around your database it's it's
very similar to what we have in ec2 and
it gives you the ability to define
inbound and
found traffic rules as far as what is
allowed into your database and what is
allowed out and you can define that at
the protocol the port and the source
level and with the source level you have
a fair amount of flexibility you can
define a single IP address you can
define a range of IP addresses or you
could actually define another security
group as the source so if you're running
a multi-tiered architecture with the
database as part of that you can
actually define the source as a security
group of the tier above your database
that actually needs to talk to your
database and so it allows you to and to
ensure that the components that need to
talk to the database can but that other
components or other users can't
circumnavigate your security rules as
far as how you actually want your
database to be accessed ews offers
Identity and Access Management is a
service to control access and
permissions within your AWS account
against the AWS services you're using
and RDS is one of those services you can
certainly use I am against one of the
key things to call out here though is
that I am doesn't control who can log in
to your database you still need to focus
on using the grants functionality that
exists within your database engine to
define users and their passwords and
what access those users or the
applications have within your database
Identity and Access Management is going
to control what you could do against the
actual RDS service so defining who can
create a database who can modify the
configuration of a database as far as
the service goes or delete a database
from the RDS service one of the cool
things with that is that besides monitor
you know meant controlling those types
of permissions if you're using tags on
your RDS instance you can actually
define access policies that go down to
the tag level so if you want to say that
a support person can only maybe modify
development databases versus production
databases you can actually go that fine
grain of your policies around how you
use and how people access the RDS
service in your account
one of the reasons that people are so
concerned or focused on security when it
comes to running on AWS is that they
have compliance needs that they need to
meet so we have lots of different
customers across the enterprise the the
public sector and the startup space who
are operating in industries that require
that they meet certain requirements in
order to be certified as running you
know being allowed to run for that
particular industry so what AWS has done
is we've gone and we've worked with
these third-party organizations that you
see here on the slide and we work with
them to help them understand the RDS
service and make sure that it is running
and meets or even potentially exceeds
the requirements they have around how
the service needs to be operated and how
it needs to be secured against their
requirements and so what that means is
that you as a customer have the ability
to run your applications on top of RDS
and achieve a compliance certification
it doesn't mean that you don't have any
responsibilities though your security
professionals they don't have to worry
about the infrastructure of the RDS
service but they still need to focus
their time on your applications and
making sure that they're still compliant
and they meet the requirements of the
organization that you're working with
and you're then able to take the
third-party attestations that we can
provide around how RDS is meeting the
requirements of a particular compliance
organization you can marry that up with
your audit findings from your
application and have a complete view to
show that you are fully compliant with
the industry or the organization that
you're operating against this is a view
of what we have for compliance for each
of the database engines today with the
newest one being Aurora having HIPAA baa
and postgres segal having hip a baa that
was announced on Tuesday one
clarification here the Aurora one
currently only applies to the my sequel
compatible Aurora it does not apply to
the postgres Aurora yet and we are you
know we're working to bridge the gap
with all these engines to help grow that
this list of compliance bodies that all
the engines cover so over time you
should expect to see this list to grow
some of these compliance organizations
have requirements around protection and
encryption of data some of them say that
you actually have to have your data
encrypted in transit so with RDS you can
actually enable SSL for all the RDS
engines to ensure that you have your
data encrypted coming into and out of
the database to help ensure that your
meeting compliance requirements whether
they be internal or external to ensure
that your data is protected all it's in
transit another common thing that we see
both for internal and external
compliance requirements is the need to
have data protected and encrypted at
rest so in general whatever possible at
AWS we recommend that customers encrypt
their data wherever they can to help it
increase in secure their data and
already us provide you a couple
different ways that you can actually go
through and implement this protection if
you're using Oracle or sequel server and
you want to use or are using transparent
data encryption you can actually take
and implement that functionality on an
RDS database on the Oracle side you get
the extra ability to actually take and
store your keys in a cloud HSM module as
opposed to just sitting there on the
database server so if you have some
requirements or would like to use an HSM
as part of your implementation you can
do that with the Oracle implementation
then for all the engines that that RDS
supports you can also implement at rest
encryption using AWS key management
service so the key management services
AWS managed service that takes care of
all the scalability durability
reliability key rotation key deletion
key creation that you might expect from
from a normal key management service and
it allows you to focus on building your
applications and integrating with the
database without having to invest all
the operational overhead and design of
actually creating your own key
management service it gives you
protection in RDS of the underlying
storage that's holding your database
your data it also actually provides
protection for the automated backups
that RDS gives you for the read replicas
that you can implement with RDS and for
the snapshots
you might create against your database
those will also all be encrypted kms
uses industry standard aes 256-bit
encryption and turning on an enabling
encryption with an RDS using kms is very
straightforward when you're in the
management console there's one drop down
that's enable encryption you choose yes
or no if you choose yes and you do
nothing else the RDS service will create
a service key in your account with key
management service and that key is tied
and owned by your account it is not does
not live in another AWS account it's not
owned by somebody else it is tied to
your account you have full ownership of
it that key is then used to vend up data
keys that are used to encrypt and
protect your databases and each database
would get its own data keys so each
database would running be running with
its own encryption key when you go in
and you launch database instance here's
what happens is the the RDS service is
going to stand up and create the actual
database instance it's going to see that
you've enabled key management and
encryption it's going to reach out to
the KMS service and say hey I'd like to
use this key kms is going to verify that
that database actually has permission to
use that master key when it verifies
that and it's all good it will then back
a data key to the RDS service it will
store that key in memory the database
instance it will then use that key to
encrypt and decrypt your data as you are
using the database an important thing to
call it here is that I talked about the
the service key that you get in KMS if
you want to actually use a different key
you can actually either use KMS to
create your own master key or if you
have a key that you've been using you
can actually import that key into kms
you can actually choose to use those
keys instead of the service key if you'd
like to when you're encrypting your
database so i talked about how you know
how it is when you actually enable
encryption this is a screenshot of the
management console and in the upper
right you can see there's just that
drop-down of the yes option or enabling
encryption the default there once again
that AWS / RDS that's the service
specific key or you can enter the amazon
resource name
of a different key that you'd like to
use that's in your account for
encryption it's also very straight
forward to actually enable this at the
command line if you're doing some
automation around how you create your
databases so there's one extra parameter
called storage encrypted that one will
use the default service key and if you
want to use a specific key you all you
use the storage encrypted option along
with the key ID of the key that you'd
like to use from KMS so when you're
using RDS and KMS together as a couple
of hints that i'd like to make sure
you're aware of you can only encrypt
when you actually create a new database
so if the database is already up and
running you can't actually just turn
encryption on and once the database is
on an up and running and you have
encryption turned all you can't turn
encryption off you're mastering your
read replica must be encrypted and the
RDS service actually takes care of that
for you so if you've already encrypted
your master database and you go and
create another read replica if the
service will automatically enable
encryption for that read replica as well
if you have any unencrypted snap shots
shots sitting around you can actually
use them to create encrypted databases
so if you have an Aurora snapshot that's
unencrypted when you use that snapshot
to create a new database cluster there's
actually now an option to choose that
you want that database encrypted and you
can provide the right key that you want
to use you know how have an encrypted
arroyo database if you have a snapshot
that's unencrypted for any of the other
engines you can actually take that
snapshot use the copy snapshot
functionality and during that copy
process you can actually choose that you
want to have encryption for that new
snapshot choose the key you want to use
and then you can take that new snapshot
to actually launch a new database
instance you know have a encrypted
database running as well you currently
can't take a my sequel encrypted
snapshot and use it to create an arroyo
instance and you can't use an Aurora
encrypted snapshot to create a my sequel
instance an RDS and you can't take any
encrypted snapshots and crappie them to
in a different AWS region right now and
we can't you can't do any read replica
rep in other regions if you're using an
encrypted snap encrypted database at
this point that's a very common ass from
our customers be able to solve the
product teams I'm sure are working on
that and trying to find other
right way to make that possible with
that I'd like to hand it over to Katie
for just a little bit and I'll be back a
little later thank you Scott
so monitoring your database to see how
its performing to track some key metrics
to know that these key metrics are
within bound to get notified if some of
these metrics get out of bounds and
hopefully to automate if something bad
happens because these metrics are outer
bound are all critical parts of managing
a database these metrics are also
important dinner or apart in in RDS for
scaling operations as well so let's look
at some of the matrix and monitoring
lead features that RDS offers to you for
anyone that is using RDS we offer to you
around 15 to 18 different metrics the
number of metrics depends on the
database instance size that you are
using RDS passes all the information
required for this matrix to the Amazon
Cloud wat service and once it's with
cloud watch you are able to review these
metrics from the monitoring tab within
RDS console from within the cloud watch
console itself or through cloud watch
api's you get these interviews metrics
at 1 minute intervals you get this into
these metrics in a nice graphical format
you can see single graphs multiple
graphs or you can use the cloud watch
api's to bring all this data into your
own logging and monitoring tools when
you get this matrix you also have the
ability to set up cloud watch alarms
what that means is you set up thresholds
on these metrics that are meaningful to
you if the threshold is exceeded because
of any reason you will get notified and
you can use services like Amazon SNS to
take automated actions in case the
threshold is exceeded as well when it
comes to monitoring your databases there
might be a lot of matrix at the host and
operating system level that you might
want to track and monitor in RDS here
you don't have the ability to log into
the host you don't have access to the to
the host operating system as well so to
provide you insights related to to the
host and the host operating system we
offer enhanced monitoring
enhance monitoring provides you about 50
additional metrics that you can track
they are also provided to you we are a
cloud watch you can choose the latency
at which these enhance monitoring
metrics are provided to you default is
60 seconds but you can make it as small
as one second if you want with the nance
monitoring some of the things that you
are able to get to are things like free
memory used memory amount of file system
there to be I've already ended up using
as well so you might be wondering what's
the difference between the basic
monitoring standard monitoring and
enhanced monitoring why are they
different to provide to you the standard
monitoring metrics hypervisor is used
whatever the hypervisor is able to see
is whatever is offered to you we are the
standard monitoring but hypervisor is
not able to get to all the information
in the host and the host operating
system it has a limited functionality so
to provide enhanced monitoring metrics
we actually run a lightweight agent on
the host itself the host which is
hosting your RDS instance and this agent
is able to collect all the information
and provide it to enhance monitoring
which we brought it to you along with
the postgres sequel edition of Aurora we
are also announcing a new monitoring
feature with an RDS which is called
performance insights the goal of
performance insights is to provide
customers with a intuitive graphical
interface that helps them determine
where the performance bottleneck lie and
where they should take some action a lot
of detailed information is is gathered
by lightweight mechanism and we offer
this information to you for up to the
last 35 days so it's difficult to see
this graph right here but the act if you
the y-axis on this graph is the cpu load
and the and the orange and the blue
lines you see our sequel queries so
looking at this graph you can quickly
arrow down the areas where the
performance bottlenecks are and review
which sequel statements are actually
causing all that bottleneck so now you
are quickly able to determine that and
here they will expect on that after this
would be a free feature it's going to
get rolled rolled out in phases
throughout 2017 started with the post
class edition of Aurora when we are
designing an application it's an
application stack we have to make sure
that each layer or each tier in that
application stack is highly available
otherwise the complete application will
not be available for example if you
design the application portion to be a
che but the database is not you will
still see a downtime in case something
bad happens with the database so when we
talk about high availability with RDS we
are talking about the ability for you to
failover in case something bad happens
with your primary instance or the
ability for you to use another database
instance in phase something bad happens
with the primary instance so there are a
few features that RDS offers for high
availability let's look at them let's
start with something simple let's say
that you are launching a new RDS
instance you choose the region you want
to work in you choose the VPC where you
want to deploy this RDS instance in case
you are using a single easy
configuration you'll choose the
availability zone point to the subnet
where you want to launch it and then you
are able to launch your RDS instance in
a single availability zone configuration
now this configuration is just fine I
kept taking the tires you are testing
things out developing something for
example but when it comes to running
production databases the best practice
is to configure your RDS instance in a
multi easy configuration when you launch
a new RDS instance in a multi easy
configuration or you modify an existing
single easy RDS instance into multi easy
what RDS does is it launches standby
replica of your primary instance in a
different availability zone within the
same region and after launching it it's
going to sink in the sleigh replicate
data between your primary node and your
standby node so it is this is
synchronous which means that any
transactions are simultaneously provided
to both the primary as well as the
standby one of the key features this
multi AZ configuration provides to you
it gives you higher durability higher
availability but it also gives you gives
RDS the ability to provide to you
automated failover in case there is
something wrong with the primary
database in instance whether at the
compute layer or at the storage layer or
the primary availability zone has any
issues or there is network connectivity
issue to that primary easy RDS will
automatically flail over to the to the
standby and promote it to be the new
master to do this veil over which is
automated the cname record of your of
your master instance the DB endpoint is
flipped over to the standby and then
there standbys is promoted so this DNS
failover typically takes anywhere from
30 seconds to 2 minutes to happen one of
the cool features is that all of this is
automated since the endpoint itself does
not change you do not have to make any
changes to your applications as soon as
the standby is promoted it can keep
using the database just like it was
already another related concept is that
of I availability in case your primary
database has performance issues because
there are a lot of reads and writes
happening to scale the read capability
of your you can actually do two things
one is you can just scale up your
primary database you just get a bigger
RDS instance but you can also scale out
the raid capability of your database by
launching madrid replicas and then the
read portions of your applications can
point to the
read replicas and the master is
offloaded with the work of just just
doing read transactions so it helps you
scale the performance of a database with
the my sequel Maria DB post-press and
Aurora database engines you can launch
these read replicas within the region or
across regions as well now if you're
launching across regions that gives you
a couple of cool capabilities the first
is that if you have a globally
distributed application if your reads
are our local or closer to where your
application is setting the performance
is going to be better and the other cool
feature is that it's a good tool for you
to have and you're designing disaster
recovery right solutions because these
replicas can also be used to failover
and become a master as well you can get
masters out of these our eyes design
differently so I'm going to spend a
couple of minutes talking about how odd
shape works with aurora aurora uses a
decoupling and service-oriented
architecture techniques to break out
database functionality into different
smaller services logging and storage in
aurora is a different service caching is
another service i'm not going to get
into caching right here we need to just
talk about the storage tier here within
Roura storage is handled by six
different storage nodes these six
different storage nodes are across three
different availability zones in a region
so you get a lot lot more durability and
availability this way and this six
different storage nodes are only a
peer-to-peer gossip network and they
talk to each other to come up to speed
and they use a quorum system if four of
this six storage node says that a the
acknowledged a right then the right is
committed so this makes a raw
performance very fast another cool
feature here is that these storage nodes
continuously and incrementally backup
your data to s3 and as3 as we know is
designed for 11 lines of durability the
key thing here is continuously and
incrementally you don't have to schedule
you don't have to schedule these backups
at all and at the database tier with in
aurora you can spin up to 15 different
raid replicas these different 15
different read replicas can be in
different availability zones in this
example I am showing three az's one is
the primary node or the master node and
then we have two different read replicas
the cool thing about these read replicas
is that they offload read load from your
database just like in in other day RDS
database engines but these read replicas
are also failover targets one of these
read replicas can be promoted to be the
master or any of these can be promoted
to be the master in case something bad
happens with the master node now which
one is going to get promoted depends on
the priority you assign and these
replicas can be of different sizes these
can be different sized instances so you
can choose if my master running in AZ a
goes down promote my read replica
sitting in AZ 3 which is the same size
to be the new master so and this
failover is quite fast as well with that
I'm going to hand it over to Scott and I
will be back to than to conclude this
presentation great thank you so scaling
your database to keep up with demand is
important part of operating your overall
application or your workload and as you
if you recall in one of the earlier
slides I talked about the you know one
of the key value props I've already s is
the ability to actually be able to scale
up and scale down actually quite easily
so we're going to dive a little bit
deeper into one of some of the things
you can do around scaling when it comes
to RDS so why would we scale why do
people want to scale first natural one
is just being able to handle changes in
load over time being able to handle a
higher load or even lower load to ensure
that you're able to provide the proper
level of service to your internal or
external cuffs
murs and also be able to control costs
you want to be able to just naturally
grow over time maybe you you want to
launch a database to support an
application that you're having in beta
and then you gradually roll it out to
more users whether it be internal or
external that's going to naturally drive
more usage on your database and you're
going to want to grow it up but maybe
you don't want to provision and pay for
the largest database you think you'll
need right at the very start and then
another note on controlling costs you
know all of this has kind of a
supporting your users and controlling
costs aspect to it but what if you could
actually have the ability to if you have
a database let's say it's very heavily
used Monday through Friday and on the
weekends it's hardly ever used at all
it's way over provision for the weekends
another interesting idea around
controlling costs when it comes to
scaling is what if I could actually take
my database and scale it down friday
night to a minimum size that's
appropriate for the weekend so the
database is still up and it can be
accessed if needed but not I'm going to
pay for this this way of a provision
database during the weekend and then I
could scale it up monday morning before
everybody comes in and how the database
happen up and running it at the size
that's necessary for the for the weekday
and I've been able to kind of use the
scaling process to actually help control
my costs a little bit while still being
able to ride the right level of service
to my end users so when you're on RTS
there's a few different things that you
can scale one is the master database
instance itself you can scale that
vertically you can make it bigger or
smaller changing the the amount of CPU a
memory that you're using for that
database you can also scale your read
replicas you can once again scale them
vertically to get them bigger or smaller
but you can also do some horizontal
scaling with your read replicas you can
actually add more read replicas to your
Tuukka to work with your master database
if you need to if you're getting a lot
of demand on your read replicas you can
also do some scaling with the storage
that's provided on RT yes no the thing
to keep in mind this is not there's not
much flexibility that comes with the
storage scaling as you might see with
the reed replicas of the database
instance and it takes time you can
actually provision a certain amount of
storage on RDS for all the non turbo
engines and then watch that and you can
can you can scale and add more storage
over time to your database so you're
only paying for what you need as you
need it but that process can take up to
24 hours for the RDS service to actually
get the new amount of storage
provisioned and you may see a little bit
of performance impact on your database
of all that's happening you could also
scale up and down the I ops that you
have provisioned to your database if
you're using provisioned I ops storage
but once again that requires a little
thought and planning around when you'd
want to do it and it takes time for RDS
service to actually implement that and
get it to the levels that you need so it
can be done but you need to have a
little bit more planning in patience
when it comes to scaling around the
storage Katie mentioned a few minutes
ago about the the reed replicas that
Aurora offers and in the last couple
months Aurora's offered is going to
released a very cool feature called read
replica endpoints so prior to this with
each read replica that you created in
Aurora you would have a separate
endpoint for all of those read replicas
so if you had 15 read replicas as part
of your cluster you could have 15
different endpoints that you need to
manage and make sure that you're getting
out to the right people and know who has
access to those endpoints so with Reed
replica endpoints with your Aurora
cluster now you get one read-only
endpoint that covers all of your read
replicas so if you have one read replica
you have 15 it's the same endpoint if
you've used you know elastic load
balancing and ec2 it's a very similar
concept so now you have the ability to
scale your read replicas to meet demand
scale them vertically or horizontally
while never having to worry about
dishing out or reclaiming endpoints from
end users or applications who are using
your read replica for your database
scalings got just a few steps that go
with it then we're going to focus on the
master database instance in this case
but this is some screenshots from the
man
console you're going to make a scaling a
sizing change to your database go to the
instance actions options choose the
modify option choose the new database
instance size that you want and then at
the very bottom of the screen there's
this apply immediately check box if you
don't check that the RDS service will do
the modification but it will do it
during your scheduled maintenance window
that you've defined for your RDS
instance I've missed this before and
I've SAT there watching waiting for just
wish to modify and it never does if you
want that change to happen right away
make sure you're checking that apply
immediately option and the RDS service
will start the modifications as soon as
you commit this commit this change so we
talked about scaling let's walk through
what happens when you're running a
single availability zone or a multi
availability zone configuration so if
you're running a single availability
zone and you decide that you want to
resize your master database instance
you've done all the work you've checked
apply immediately the RDS service is
actually going to take the existing
database out of service and then resize
it and during that period of time you
will not be able to use the DNS endpoint
that comes with your RDS instance to be
able to connect to your master database
it will not be accessible again until
the RDS service has completed resizing
your database and bringing it back
online this is a screenshot of an
example of the events that the RDS
service sends during that period of time
you can see there's about a three to six
minute window where my database was it
was unavailable and inaccessible to me
during that scaling operation so that
may be acceptable depending on your
situation but if you've got something
that needs to to be available a little
bit more that may not be suitable for
you if you're running in the multi
availability zone configurations and
some cool stuff happens when you decide
to resize your database instance the RDS
service is first going to actually go
work on that standby database it's not
going to touch the master database yet
so you're at this point still able to
receive connections and people can
access your database it will resize that
standby database
and it will then flip that standby
database to be your master database and
it will repoint the DNS records to point
to your new resized master database and
at that point it will then resize what
was the master database to match the the
size that you've chosen and turn that
master database into the standby
database so you're still running in a
multi AZ configuration and you're sized
at the level that you need to be for
both your master and your standby these
are the events that RDS records and
sends when you're scaling or resizing a
multi AZ database and you can see here
that it's been doing a bunch of work
before it even actually goes and does
the multi AZ failover so in total with
with just this DNS failover you've got
about a 30 to 60 second window where
your dns entries may be cached before
they they recycle see your applications
are going to be a little bit tolerant
you no need to either fail gracefully or
retry those transactions during that
short window when your DNS failover is
happening so now that we've figured out
okay there are ways that we can scale
different things on RDS we start
thinking about what we can do around
maybe automation for some of that
scaling so the top example here is I
have is just an example of using the the
command-line interface for RDS calling
the modified DB instance command action
I'm setting the DB instance class to
what I want it to be and I'm setting the
apply immediately option as a parameter
into that command line call if you
remember back to my example a few slides
ago when I talked about being able to
resize my database based on a schedule
based on usage patterns that I'm seeing
where I'm very heavily used on the
weekends or weekdays and hardly use it
all on the weekends we could actually
now start looking at taking that you
know that CLI example or if you use the
SDK that's fine as well in my example I
put those into two different scripts the
scripts are the same the only thing
that's the only thing that's different
between the two scripts is that the size
of the database instance so I've got a
simple cron job that runs at eight
o'clock on Friday to call a script to
scale down
RDS instance and I've got a script that
run another cron job that runs at four
o'clock in the morning on monday to
scale my RDS instance back up to the
sides that's needed to support my
weekday operations and now I have some
automated scaling happen around my
database to allow me to be able to
control costs in more of a hands-off way
even take that a step further for
scheduling using AWS lambda which is our
event-driven service lambda gives you
the ability to actually schedule your
lambda functions so that they've run you
know very similar to cron at a
particular period of time so in this
example I've written some small Python
code to once again call the modified EV
instance API give it a specific instance
that I want to change which size I want
it to be and set the apply immediately
again and then I scheduled that need of
us lambda to run at eight o'clock on
friday and four a.m. on monday two
different basically the same script the
only thing that changes is that is the
size of the DB instance and I now don't
even need a server to support running
cron to be able to have my automated
scaling happen going even further than
then scheduling my scaling I can
actually now start looking at using
metrics that RDS makes available to me
to do some more metric space scaling so
as Katie mentioned earlier RDS sends
many metrics into cloud watch you can
create alarms and cloud watch based on
thresholds this when those alarms are
breached you can send the notification
about that alarm to the AWS simple
notification service to a particular
topic and then you know that topic you
can subscribe various things I can have
it send an email I can have it call an
HTTPS service but you can also subscribe
a lambda function to an SNS topic and
what that gives me the ability to do now
is actually be able to take action based
on the alerts that are coming off of my
metrics for the RDS service so this is
another example this extension of the
Python code I showed you earlier this
has been set up to actually pull the
information out of an SNS notification
that's coming from Cloud watch pull out
the name of the database instance
and then modify that database instance
to a different size now this is a very
simple example if you were using this
for production you obviously add in the
things that matter to you and you might
also do some stuff around figuring out
what's the current database instance
size and then choosing to step it up one
if you're resizing or maybe putting a
block that says I'm not going to resize
past this so that we can actually maybe
dig a bit deeper and this is you know
we've been talking about the database
master instance but this same approach
can be applied to storage layer based on
the metrics you're getting off of the
storage layer or to your read replicas
based on the metrics you getting on your
read replicas you can use all of this to
be able to do vertical scaling or
horizontal scaling for your read
replicas as well so a lot of cool things
that exist when it comes to building
more automation when it around scaling
of your RDS instances and with that I
will hand it back over to Katie
I think it's gone
ability to take reliable backups to deal
with issues like data corruption
disaster recovery and to create other
database instances and is an important
part of running and managing any
database so let's dive deeper into this
topic let's start with automated backups
automated backups are scheduled one time
a day and you can these are managed by
the RDS service itself you can specify
the preferred backup window and during
that prefer black of window the whole
RDS instance the whole instance is
backed up these are by default the
retention period for a automated backup
is one day but you can configure it to
be up to 35 days to meet your needs the
way it's done in in my sequel postgres
Maria Oracle and sequel server is
different than how it's done in Aurora
for as I was mentioning earlier laura is
designed differently you don't have to
schedule backups there is no preferred
backup window at all backups in your
aura are automatic they are continuous
and they are incremental and they are in
s3 so it's much more easy to deal with
backups in Aurora let's look at what
steps are followed when automated
backups happen now this is for all the
engines except Iran so every day during
your backup window the storage volume in
your RDS instance is backed up and if
you are using a multi easy configuration
the backup is taken from the standby
instance so that the performance is not
impacted along with the storage instance
to restore your database you also need
the transaction log so five minutes of
transaction logs are also backed up the
storage volume back up time along with
the transaction log time give you the
latest restorable time for your for your
RDS instance and you have the ability to
restore your database to any second you
choose within that restorable time show
of hands how many of you have had to
restore a database
I see someone lucky people here how many
of you found it to be a pleasant
experience oh wow we have some great
people also well it's not fun and but
RDS makes it much more convenient for
you to restore from your backups you
just have to point it to the rest from
within the latest restorable period you
pointed to the last point in time where
you want to restore to and restoring
your RDS instances similar to creating a
new instance in the sense that you have
to do some of the same configuration
like you would do if you were launching
a new instance an important best
practice from from this particular
feature is that you can actually restore
to a smaller instance which is very
useful if you are just testing your
backups we should all test our backups
as we have seen earlier in the year some
bad things happen when the dr strategy
is not tested even if within big company
so when you are just restoring for
testing purposes use a smaller instance
when you are restoring from a backup
just to give that RDS instance to a dev
team for for working with it you can
restore to a smaller instance but if you
are restoring to replace your production
database instance then you will probably
restore to a similar size and similar
configuration like your primary database
instance that you have another option
for you is to use snapshots snapshots
are manual in nature you can take
snapshots at any given time and they are
backed up to s3 you can also restore
from snapshots and create new instances
as well one of the key features here is
that you have more flexibility into how
much of the duration of retention the
retention period is not limited to 35
days and you can keep them beyond 35
days as well and the last topic I want
to talk about is migrating to a double
yes there are several tools and services
that AWS provides AWS partners provide
and then there are
cool tools in the open source community
as well that make it easy for you to
migrate to RDS I will give you a couple
of examples and talk about two of the
services amazon offers the first example
i want to talk about is migrating from
my sequel which is running on ram in
this case and migrating from that into a
target amazon aurora rd amazon instance
within the RDS family in this case you
can use my sequel dump this is my sequel
we are talking about so the utilities
work RDS is no different and use the my
sequel dump facility to dump and then
import the data in but some studies
claim that if you use percona extra
backer which which is a free open source
tool they found it to be 20 times faster
it's hot backup of your data base there
is compression built in and it's
incremental so if you use the pre kuna
extra backup tool to create a backup
file of your database you can then bring
that file over the wire into s3 you can
speed that transfer up by using the
transfer acceleration feature within s3
and you can also use multi-part uploads
which will junk up your file and try to
upload those parts in parallel and then
steal them back then stitch them back in
with in s3 that's also helpful if we
have the file which is more than five
terabytes in size because that's the
object size in s3 but if you have if
you're dealing with large backup files
say several terabytes then you can also
consider the AWS import/export snowball
appliance you put your data in snowball
ship it to us we'll bring the data into
s3 now once the data is in s3 creating a
Aurora cluster from it is just a click
away you point it to the s3 bucket where
the data is sitting and Iraq luster is
generated from them so it makes the
migration path quite easy the other
example I want to talk about is sequel
server database migration into RDS and
in this case we are going to use the
native
backup restore functionality within
sequel server that functionality give
you gives u dot back files you again
bring those dot back files into s3 using
snowball or using multi-part upload
transfer acceleration the whole thing
and once it is in s3 from the command
prompt you can just bring that data into
sequel server a cool thing here if you
notice is that the arrows are
bi-directional so you can use this
method to migrate data into or out of
the clock AWS database migration service
was announced a train went last year
made GA March of this year and since
that time it has done more than 14,000
different database migrations one of the
cool features of this migration services
that it supports heterogeneous targets
for example you can migrate from Oracle
to postgres sequel engine of RDS or you
can have homogeneous is equal to my
sequel as well when you set up database
migration service it's going to you
point to your source database to your
target database and it does the work of
migration for you and after that
migration is done it keeps the two
databases in sync so that you can choose
the appropriate cut over time to move
over to your target database when we are
dealing with heterogeneous migrations
such that your database engine in the
source is different than database engine
at the target the database objects do
not translate directly I'm talking about
stored procedures schemas tables indexes
DML constructs etcetera they need to be
converted from one generation to another
AWS schema conversion tool is helps with
that let's say it's a development
environment you download it to your
desktop and it you point it to the
schema and it's going to help you
convert it to the target schema it's not
going to be hundred percent successful
all the time but for the portions in the
schema is not able to convert it's going
to highlight them
and it's going to give you suggestions
on how you might migrate it so it helps
you reduce the overall time it takes to
do your migrations of God so with that I
would like to thank you for your time
and Scott and I would be happy to answer
any questions you might have